# Forecasting data and methods

## Methods based on data availability

- Qualitative forecasting (No Guesswork)
  - APPLICABLE IF: No data and/or no relevant data available
  - Methods discussed in chapter 6: Judgmental forecast

- Quantitative forecasting
  - APPLICABLE IF 2 CONDITIONS ARE SATISFIED: 
    1. Numerical information about the past is available
    2. It is reasonable to assume that some aspects of the past patterns will continue into the future.

### Data of interest
- Time-series (collected at regular intervals over time)
  - Involves observation gathered over time at regular intervals (e.g., hourly, daily, monthly)
  - **Focuses on changes in a variable or variables over time**
  - Examples include stock prices recorded daily over a year or monthly temperature readings over several decades.
- Cross-sectional (Collected at a single point in time)
  - Involves observations taken at a single point in time or within a short time frame.
  - **Captures infomration about different entities at a specific moment**
  - Examples include data colelcted via surveys or studies at a particular instance, like demographic information of individuals in a country in a given year or sales figures of different products in a company in a specific quarter.

*THIS BOOK FOCUSES ON TIME-SERIES DATA.

## Time series forecasting
### Examples of time-series data
- Annual Google profits
- Quarterly sales results for Amazon
- Monthly rainfall
- Weekly retail sales
- Daily IBM stock prices
- Hourly electriciy demand
- 5-minute freeway traffic counts
- Time-stamped stock transaction data

### Scope of time series
Focuses on primarily on regularly spaced time series (hourly, daily, weekly, etc), though irregularly spaced data exist.

### Aim of TS forecasting
The goal is **to predict how a sequence of observations will continue into the future**. It shows an example of forecasting Australian quarterly beer production, emphasizing capturing seasonal patterns.

### Limitations of simple forecasting methods
Simple forecasting methods only use past data, ignoring external factors (like marketing, economic changes) that might influence the variable being forecasted.

### Importance of decomposition methods
Techniques like decomposition aid in understanding trends and seasonal patterns in ts data

### Popular TS forecasting models
Mentions exponential smoothing and ARIMA models as commonly used methods, further covered in chapter 8 and 9. LSTM is also popular in use but this is more to deep learning model.

## Predictor variables and ts forecasting

|Formula | Description | Type
|-| - | - |
| $ED=f(current\space temperature, strength\space of\space economy, time\space of\space day, day\space of\space week, e)$ | An example to reason why predictors (features) are useful in ts forecasting. Suppose we would like to predict the hourly electricity demand (**ED**) of a hot region during the summer period. | Explanatory model|
|$ED_{t+1}=f(ED_{t},ED_{t-1},ED_{t-2},...,e)$|Where $t$ is the present hour, $t+1$ is the next hour, and so on.| TS model |

- Explanatory model
  - A model seeking to explain the variations observed in a particular variable (e.g. response) based on various predictors (e.g. features).
  - It's a model that aims to understand and attribute changes in the variable of interest to these known factors. It helps identify what factors might influence or cause variations in the actual ts data. 
- Error term
  - The $e$ in the model refers to error and it represents the difference between $y$ and $\hat{y}$. It encompasses random variations and the influence of relevant variables that are not explicitly included in the model. Essentially, it accounts for unexplained elements or factors beyond those incorporated in the model's predictors. This term acknowledges that not all variations in the actual variables can be precisely accounted for by the included predictors; there might be unmeasured factors contributing to the variability.

| Formula | Description | Type |
|-|-|-|
| $ED_{t+1}=f(ED_{t},current \space temperature, time \space of \space day, time \space of \space week, e)$ | A third type of model which combines the features of the above two models mentioned above. These types of "mixed models" have been given various names in different disciplines. They are known as dynamic regression models, panel data models, longitudinal models, transfer function models, and linear system models (assuming $f$ is linear). These models are discussed in chapter 10: Dynamic regression models. | Mixed |

## Explanatory and TS models
Explanatory models are useful because it incorporates information about other variables, rather than only historical values of the variable to be forecast.

### Serveral reasons forecasters use ts models rather than explanatory models, however, ...
1. The system may not be understood and even if it was understood it may be extremely difficult to measure the relationships that are assumed to govern its behaviour.
2. It is necessary to know or forecast the future values of the various predictors in order to be able to forecast the variable of interest, and this may be too difficult.
3. The main concern may be only to predict what will happen, not to know why it happens.
4. The TS model may give more accurate predictions than the explanatory or mixed model.