# Some case studies

## Case 1: A forecast software needed be analyzed and modified
The client was a **large company manufacturing** disposable tableware such as napkins and paper plates. They needed forecasts of each of hundreds of items **every moth**. The TS data showed a range of patterns, some with trends, some seasonal, and some with neither. At the time, **they were using their own software**, written in-house, **but it often produced forecasts that did not seem sensible**. The methods that were being used were the following:
1. Average of the last 12 months data;
2. Average of the last 6 months data;
3. Prediction from a straight line regression over the last 12 months;
4. Prediction from a straight line regression over the last 6 months;
5. Prediction obtained by a straight line through the last observation with slope equal to the average slope of the lines connecting last year's and this year's values;
6. Prediction obtained by a straight line through the last observation with slope equal to the average slope of the lines connecting last year's and this year's values, where the average is taken only over the last 6 months.

Their demand from us is to tell them the reason that the result was not sensible and provide a moditification to their in-house built software for the better forecast.

## Case 2: A forecast method that is robust against sudden chages in the patterns and aslo considers if present, external trends &amps; factors
The client was **the Australian federal government**, which needed to forcast **the annual budget for the Pharmaceutical Benefit Scheme** (PBS). The PBS provides subsidy for many pharmaceutical products sold in Australia, and the expenditure depends on what people purchase during the year. The total expenditure was around $7 billion in 2009, and had been underestimated by nearly $1 billion in each of the two years before we **were asked to assist in developing a more accurate forcast**. Challenge of the forecast in this case is the sudden jumps up or down in the sales volume of many groups due to changes in what drugs are subsidised. Also, the implicit impact from its competitor drugs becoming available.\
The task for this case is to find a forecasting method that allowed for trend and seasonality if they were present, and at the same time was robust to sudden changes in the underlying patterns. It also needed to be able to be applied automatically to a large number of TS.

## Case 3: A forecast model required for the company's resale values
User: A large car fleet company\
Demand: To help them forecast vehicle resale values\
Description: The company **purchases** new **vehicles**, **lease them out for 3 years**, and the **sell** them.\
Positive meaning adapting forecast method for the company:
- Better control of profits
- Understanding what affects resale values may allow leasing and sales policies to be developed in order to maximize the profit

Current work in forecast is shet.

## Case 4: A forecast model for predicting passenger numbers for each route and their plane seats.
Task: Develop a model for forecasting weekly air passenger traffic on major domestic routes.\
Demand: Forecasts of passenger numbers for each major route and for each class of passenger (economy, business and first class).\
Data: TS data that provides weekly traffic data from the previous 6 years.\
Conditions that affect the model: The number of air-passengers are affected by holiday season, sporting events, advertising campaigns, competitor behaviour, etc.
E.g. A major pilots' strike:
- New cut-price airline
- Airline had trialled a redistribution of some class seats.
- After several months, the seat classifications reverted to the original distribution.