# The basic steps in a forecasting task
Pretty important and I was curious to know as well.

## Step 1. Problem definition
Every task that requires a forecast solution to be delivered, there should be a solid defined domain-specific question for the user.
- How the forecasting $f$ fits within the organisation requiring the forecast.
- Who is the user of the forecast
- how are they going to use it

**Forecasters** needs to spend time talking to people:
- who will be involved in the data collection
- maintaining databases
- Using the forecasts for future planning

## Step 2. Gathering info
At least 2 kinds of info required:
1. Statistical data
2. Accumulated expertise of the people who collect the data and use the forecasts

In practice, obtaining enough historical data is challening to be able to fit a good statistical model. $\rightarrow$ **Judgmental forecasting** covered in chapter 6.

Occasionally, old data will be less useful due to structural changes in the system being forecast; then we may choose to use only the most recent data.

*Note: A good statisical models can handle evolutionary changes in the system. Don't throw away the good data. 

## Step 3. Preliminary (Explanatory data) analysis
Observe a significant patterns, trends, seasonality, the presence of business cycles, outliers, how strong are the relationships among the variables available for analysis (Relationship topic discussed in chapter 2 and 3)

## Step 4. Choosing and fitting models
The best model to use depends on the data availability.
- Regression (Chapter 7)
- Exponential smoothing method (Chapter 8)
- ARIMA (Chapter 9)
- Dynamic regression models (Chapter 10)
- Hierarchical forecasting (Chapter 11)
- Several advanced methods including neural networks and vector autoregression (Chapter 12) 

## Step 5. Using and evaluating a forecasting model
Once the model is selected and its parameters estimated, the model is used to make forecasts. Model evaluation is then progressed after.

A number of methods have been developed to help in assessing the accuracy of the forecast.

Chapter 5 discusses the issues in organizational issues in using and acting on the forecasts.

Chapter 13 discusses numerous practical issues arise when using the forecasting model. (e.g. null values, outliers, how to deal with short-term series and etc.)
