# Exercises

## For cases 3 and 4 in section 1.5, list the possible predictor variables that might be useful, assuming that the relevant data are available

Case 3 was about a forecast model requiring to predict resale value.\
The domain field of the company is a large car fleet company, and their goal in forecasting is to have a better control of profits and understand what affects resale values may allow leasing and sales policies to be developed in order to maximize the profit.

### Categorized vehicle data
Types of vehicles in the fleet categorized by make, model, year, etc.
### Historical Resale Values
Past resale values categorized by vehicle type
### Current market prices
Real-time data on current market prices for similar vehicles
### Competitors Pricing
Pricing strategies of competitors for comparable vehicles
### Economic Indicators
Financial health of the country and the domain market indicators influencing the vehicle resale price.
### Vehicle mileage and condition
Past records on mileage and condition at the time of resale, impacting the value
### Maintenance and service records
Records of maintenance and service history, which can influence resale value
### Trends in consumer preference
Market trends and shifts in consumer preferences for specific vehicle types
### Technological advancements
Incorporation of new features or technological advancements impacting resale value
### Supply and Demand Dynamics
Trends in supply and demand for specific vehicle types in the market.

Case 4 was about forecasting number of airpassengers for each route and seats.

### Seat Reservation Data
Past records of seats reserved on various routes across different classes.
### External factors
Past records on external factors impacting passenger numbers (Holidays, events, campaigns, strikes, and etc.).
### Financial health of the departure and arrival countries
Current economic condition of the target market's travelers and any trends affecting their travel behaviour.
### Environmental Factors (if relevant)
Climate or other environmental conditions affecting travel patterns.
### Booking Lead Time
Past records on the time gap between booking and travel, affecting seat reservation numbers
### Marketing and promotional campaigns
Past records of marketing initiatives and promotional activities impacting passenger bookings
### Customer reviews and sentimental analysis
Analysis of customer reviews and sentiment related to specific routes or airlines
### Regulatory changes or travel policies
Changes in travel regulations or policies affecting passenger numbers
### Global Events and Trends
Worldwide events or trends impacting travel behaviour (e.g., pandemics, geopolitical changes).


## For case 3 in section 1.5, describe the five steps of forecasting in the context of this project

1. Domain-specific problem definition

Case 3 was about a forecast model requiring to predict resale value.\
The domain field of the company is a large car fleet company, and their goal in forecasting is to have a better control of profits and understand what affects resale values may allow leasing and sales policies to be developed in order to maximize the profit.

   - User: Experts and/or forecasters who are interested in seeing reasonable predicted resale value of their vehicles
   - The forecast results are possible for setting new resale value of their vehicles reasonably.
   - The forecasting model $f$ fits within this large car fleet company
     - How? By fine-tuning the parameters mentioned above and optimizing forecast model can give good forecasts for their resale vehicles. 

  - In the meantime, The forecasters need to spend time talking to experts who are in charge of:
    - Data engineering: Info retrievals and maintenance
    - Users of interests.

1. Gathering info for the accurate forecast

    Two types of info required:
    1. Statistical data
    2. Accumulated data by experts

Depends on data availability we use Judgmental forecasting that is covered in chapter 6.

```To be updated ...```

2. Preliminary data analysis (EDA)
Observe a significant patterns, trends, seasonality, the presence of business cycles, outliers, how strong are the relationships among the variables available for analysis (Relationship topic discussed in chapter 2 and 3).

3. Choosing and fitting model

The best model to use depends on the data availability.

- Regression (Chapter 7)
- Exponential smoothing method (Chapter 8)
- ARIMA (Chapter 9)
- Dynamic regression models (Chapter 10)
- Hierarchical forecasting (Chapter 11)
- Several advanced methods including neural networks and vector autoregression (Chapter 12)

4. Using and Evaluating a forecasting model

Once the model is selected and its parameters estimated, the model is used to make forecasts. Model evaluation is then progressed after.

A number of methods have been developed to help in assessing the accuracy of the forecast.

Chapter 5 discusses the issues in organizational issues in using and acting on the forecasts.

Chapter 13 discusses numerous practical issues arise when using the forecasting model. (e.g. null values, outliers, how to deal with short-term series and etc.)